Create MIGRATION-FROM-SCK.md (#267)
signalfx/splunk-otel-collector-chart: MIGRATION-TO-SCK.md

> # Migration from Splunk Connect for Kubernetes

Reviewer: Change to "Splunk OpenTelemetry Connector for Kubernetes". This is the official product name.

## Assumptions

You are running Splunk Connect for Kubernetes(SCK) 1.4.9 and want to migrate to Splunk OpenTelemetry Connector for Kubernetes(SCK-OTEL) 1.0 GA. Previous versions of SCK are out of scope, but this guide is applicable for previous versions. You might encounter some version specific issues (such as missing/changed config options) but that shouldn't prevent you from proceeding with migration.

## Changes in Components

> Splunk Connect for Kubernetes(SCK) has 3 components/applications:

Reviewer: Change to "Splunk OpenTelemetry Connector for Kubernetes has three components and applications:"

We should not use "/" or "and/or". It's better to use "and" or "or".

> 1.  Logs, metrics and traces from a kubernetes cluster (deployed as a DaemonSet)

Reviewer: "1. Logs, metrics, and traces from a Kubernetes cluster..."
"2. An application to fetch cluster metrics from a Kubernetes cluster ..."
"3. An application to fetch Kubernetes object metadata from a Kubernetes cluster ..."

2.  Application to fetch cluster metrics from a kubernetes cluster (deployed as a deployment)
3.  Application to fetch kubernetes objects metadata from a kubernetes cluster (deployed as a deployment)

> All the applications in SCK use Fluentd to work with logs, metrics and objects. There are performance limitations associated with Fluentd when using the logging application to fetch logs in a kubernetes cluster with pods that have very high throughput. To solve this issue we changed the implementation of the application to use Opentelemetry agent instead of Fluentd for high throughput scenarios. You can learn more about the performance characteristics of this new application [here](https://github.com/splunk/sck-otel#performance-of-splunk-connect-for-kubernetes-opentelemetry). If you want to learn more about the application architecture, we have shared a brief summary [here](https://github.com/splunk/sck-otel#performance-of-splunk-connect-for-kubernetes-opentelemetry).

Reviewer: "... logs, metrics, and objects ..."

> Splunk OpenTelemetry Connector for Kubernetes(SCK-OTEL) has 2 components/applications:

Reviewer: "... has two components and applications:"

1.  Application to fetch logs and traces from a kubernetes cluster (deployed as a DaemonSet)
2.  Application to fetch metrics and objects from a kubernetes cluster (deployed as a DaemonSet).

No application currently exists for fetching kubernetes objects metadata from a kubernetes cluster. 

### Changes in Logs, Metrics and Objects

| Logging | Metrics | Objects |
|---|---|---|
| Redhat UBI docker images for our applications are no longer available, as we now use scratch images | The naming convention of the metrics used in SCK-OTEL has changed and there are some minor differences in the names of the metrics | Not implemented/Not available |
| SCK-OTEL does not support AWS Firelens. AWS Firelens uses Fluentd and we can achieve similar outcomes with opentelemetry. | Changes in the number of metrics (fewer metrics available) and additional metrics for the open telemetry collector |  |
|  |  |  |

> ### Changes in Logs in Splunk OpenTelemetry Connector for Kubernetes(SCK-OTEL)

Reviewer: "Changes in logs ..."

> * Redhat UBI docker images for our applications are no longer available, as we now use scratch images.

Reviewer: "Red Hat Universal Base Image (UBI) Docker images ..."

If you are using the "clientCert", "clientKey" and "caFile" options from SCK, you can use the corresponding "clientCert", "clientKey" and "caFile" options in SCK-OTEL to specify your HEC certificate chain.

If you are using the "insecureSSL" option from SCK, you can use the insecure_skip_verify option in SCK-OTEL to specify whether to verify the certificates on HEC.

If you are using the "indexName" option from SCK you can use the index option in SCK-OTEL to specify which index you want to index data into. Translating custom configs from SCK to SCK-OTEL for logs

## Translating custom configs from SCK to SCK-OTEL for logs
You can find all the configuration options used to upgrade in the values.yaml files linked above for both SCK and SCK-OTEL.
 
#### Using Root user/permissions for accessing log files
If you are using root user/permissions for accessing log files in SCK, you can do so by setting "runAsUser: 0" in the securityContext in SCK-OTEL.

#### Container runtimes

> If you configured SCK for your container runtime (CRI-O, containerd and docker) note the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you configured SCK to set the container runtime (CRI-O, containerd and docker), you can do the same with Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector for Kubernetes using the following:
```

> # Migration from Splunk Connect for Kubernetes

Reviewer 2: This markdown file should be `MIGRATION-FROM-SCK.md`

Author: renamed.

Reviewer 3: you said it is renamed, but you haven't pushed that commit.

## Assumptions

> You are running Splunk Connect for Kubernetes(SCK) 1.4.9 and want to migrate to Splunk OpenTelemetry Connector for Kubernetes(SCK-OTEL) 1.0 GA. Previous versions of SCK are out of scope, but this guide is applicable for previous versions. You might encounter some version specific issues (such as missing/changed config options) but that shouldn't prevent you from proceeding with migration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You are running Splunk Connect for Kubernetes (SCK) 1.4.9 and want to migrate to Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector for Kubernetes (SCK-OTEL). Previous versions of the SCK are out of scope, but this guide still applies. You might encounter some version specific issues (such as missing/changed config options) but that shouldn't prevent you from proceeding with migration.
```

## Brief overview of Changes in Components

Splunk Connect for Kubernetes(SCK) has 3 components/applications:
1.  Application to fetch logs from a kubernetes cluster (deployed as a DaemonSet)
2.  Application to fetch metrics from a kubernetes cluster (deployed as a DaemonSet)
3.  Application to fetch kubernetes objects metadata from a kubernetes cluster (deployed as a deployment)

All the applications in SCK use Fluentd to work with logs, metrics and objects. There are performance limitations associated with Fluentd when using the logging application to fetch logs in a kubernetes cluster with pods that have very high throughput. To solve this issue we changed the implementation of the application to use Opentelemetry agent instead of Fluentd for high throughput scenarios. You can learn more about the performance characteristics of this new application [here](https://github.com/splunk/sck-otel#performance-of-splunk-connect-for-kubernetes-opentelemetry). If you want to learn more about the application architecture, we have shared a brief summary [here](https://github.com/splunk/sck-otel#performance-of-splunk-connect-for-kubernetes-opentelemetry).

> Splunk OpenTelemetry Connector for Kubernetes(SCK-OTEL) has 2 components/applications:

Reviewer: > 

Will the name remain "Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector for Kubernetes"?

1.  Application to fetch logs and traces from a kubernetes cluster (deployed as a DaemonSet)
2.  Application to fetch metrics and objects from a kubernetes cluster (deployed as a DaemonSet).

> No application currently exists for fetching kubernetes objects metadata from a kubernetes cluster. 

Reviewer 2: insert a line after this.

* system.paging.usage
* system.processes.count
* system.processes.created
* up

### Brief overview of Changes in Objects in Splunk OpenTelemetry Connector for Kubernetes (SCK-OTEL)
 With this release, you can now retrieve kubernetes objects as metadata. As such, in SCK-OTEL, you will NOT see any kubernetes objects data.

### Brief summary of Changes in Logs, Metrics and Objects

| Logging | Metrics | Objects |
|---|---|---|
| Redhat UBI docker images for our applications are no longer available, as we now use scratch images | The naming convention of the metrics used in SCK-OTEL has changed and there are some minor differences in the names of the metrics | Not implemented/Not available |
| SCK-OTEL does not support AWS Firelens. AWS Firelens uses Fluentd and we can achieve similar outcomes with opentelemetry. | Changes in the number of metrics (fewer metrics available) and additional metrics for the open telemetry collector |  |
|  |  |  |

## Migration Overview
### Migration Options/Matrix
 The following is a matrix for migrating from SCK to SCK-OTEL:

| Method  | Logs | Metrics | Objects |
|---|---|---|---|
| SCK | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| SCK-OTEL | Yes | Yes | No |

> As shown above, you can acquire logs and metrics using SCK-OTEL. If you have objects currently deployed and need objects data, we recommend you leave your objects deployment as-is.

Reviewer 2: @rockb1017 I updated my suggested update to include expansion on keeping SCK objects in place per our discussion, please review.

> As shown above, you can acquire logs and metrics using SCK-OTEL. If you have objects currently deployed and need objects data, we recommend you leave your objects deployment as-is.

Reviewer 3: we recommend you leave your current SCK objects deployment as-is (helm command args `--set="splunk-kubernetes-logging.enabled=false,splunk-kubernetes-metrics.enabled=false,splunk-kubernetes-objects.enabled=true"`)

> As shown above, you can acquire logs and metrics using SCK-OTEL. If you have objects currently deployed and need objects data, we recommend you leave your objects deployment as-is.

Reviewer 3: looks great, how about we add above suggestion in parenthesis?

> As shown above, you can acquire logs and metrics using SCK-OTEL. If you have objects currently deployed and need objects data, we recommend you leave your objects deployment as-is.

Reviewer 2: I updated the suggested text. Thanks!

If you are using the "insecureSSL" option from SCK, you can use the insecure_skip_verify option in SCK-OTEL to specify whether to verify the certificates on HEC.

If you are using the "indexName" option from SCK you can use the index option in SCK-OTEL to specify which index you want to index data into. Translating custom configs from SCK to SCK-OTEL for logs

## Translating custom configs from SCK to SCK-OTEL for logs
You can find all the configuration options used to upgrade in the values.yaml files linked above for both SCK and SCK-OTEL.

#### Using non-root user/permissions for accessing log files
 If you are not using root user/permissions for accessing log files in SCK, you can follow the steps from [setup-for-non-root-user-group](https://github.com/splunk/sck-otel#setup-for-non-root-user-group) to setup your nodes for use with SCK-OTEL.
 
#### Using Root user/permissions for accessing log files
If you are using root user/permissions for accessing log files in SCK, you can do so by setting "runAsUser: 0" in the securityContext in SCK-OTEL.

#### Container runtimes
If you configured SCK for your container runtime (CRI-O, containerd and docker) note the following:

> * Set the **containerRuntime** option to a value from (CRI-O, containerd and docker) depending on your runtime.

Reviewer 4: Nope, container runtime is automatically detected.

> * Set the **containerRuntime** option to a value from (CRI-O, containerd and docker) depending on your runtime.

Reviewer 2: OK, I went back to look at the SCK, and modified the instructions to reflect the three bullets below it.

## Step 2: Delete SCK Deployment (Optional)
If you want to delete your SCK deployment:

* Get your current SCK deployment name by running this command:

  * helm ls

* **If you want to delete only logs and metrics**

  * Update the values.yaml file used to deploy SCK to disable objects and run the following command:

  * helm upgrade local-k8s -f your-values-file.yaml splunk/splunk-connect-for-kubernetes

* **If you want to delete only logs**

  * Update the values.yaml file used to deploy SCK to disable objects and run the following command:

  * helm upgrade local-k8s -f your-values-file.yaml splunk/splunk-connect-for-kubernetes

* **If you want to delete your entire SCK deployment (logs, objects and metrics), run the following command**

  * helm delete local-k8s

## Step 3: Installing SCK-OTEL

* Ensure you have the necessary prerequisites for installing this application, as noted [here](https://github.com/splunk/sck-otel#prerequisites).
* Set up Splunk to have a Splunk index, HEC and a HEC token ready to use, as noted [here](https://github.com/splunk/sck-otel#setup-splunk).

> * You can use SCK-OTEL as a non-root application on your kubernetes nodes - follow the steps [here](https://github.com/splunk/sck-otel#setup-for-non-root-user-group).

Reviewer 2: @dmitryax @rockb1017 @tmorrisonsfx Indeed it is best practice to run SOTelK as non-root user right? can we add the equivalent to https://github.com/splunk/sck-otel#setup-for-non-root-user-group in SOTelK repo?

> * Install SCK-OTEL by using the .yaml file from Step 1 and follow the steps [here](https://github.com/splunk/sck-otel#deploy-with-helm-30).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Install SCK-OTEL by using the .yaml file from Step 1 and follow the steps [here](https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector-chart#how-to-install).
```

## Step 4: Check Data in Splunk
* Check your logs index to see if you are receiving logs from your kubernetes cluster
  * index="Your logs index"
* Check your metrics index to see if you receiving metrics from your kubernetes cluster
  * | mcatalog values(metric_name) WHERE index="Your metrics index"

## Step 5: Delete SCK Deployment (Optional)
### If you want to delete your SCK deployment
* Get your current SCK deployment name by running this command:
  * helm ls
* **If you want to delete only logs and metrics**
  * Update the values.yaml file used to deploy SCK to disable objects and run the following command:
    * helm upgrade local-k8s -f your-values-file.yaml splunk/splunk-connect-for-kubernetes
* **If you want to delete only logs**
  * Update the values.yaml file used to deploy SCK to disable objects and run the following command:
    * helm upgrade local-k8s -f your-values-file.yaml splunk/splunk-connect-for-kubernetes
* **If you want to delete your entire SCK deployment (logs, objects and metrics), run the following command**

>   * helm delete local-k8s

Reviewer 2: @chaitanyaphalak where does this content fit: https://github.com/splunk/sck-otel#search-for-splunk-connect-for-kubernetes-opentelemetry-metadata-in-splunk ?  I didn't notice it above.

Reviewer 4: https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector-chart/pull/277
